Tidy routes are happy routes (#142)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2021/2021-11-29-tidy-up-your-routes-with-only.md

---
title: "Tidy Up Your Routes with Only"
description: "Be tidy"
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: "2021/tidy-up-your-routes-with-only"
  alt: "Road Closed. Diversion. Road signs."
  credit: "Ben Wicks"
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/zwN1MwCtR5Y"

---

It is easy with [Rails’ syntax for defining routes](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/routing.html) to open up more URLs in your application than you might intend.

## Instead of…

…using an open `resources` block in your routes:

```ruby
resources :orders do
  resources :products
end
```

## Use…

…the `only` and `except` options to limit the actions you’re generating:

```ruby
resources :orders, except: %w[destroy] do
  resources :products, only: %w[show]
end
```

## Why?

> This is a case where it is all about clarity, tidying up and pretecting against unexpected errors or security holes.

Reviewer: This could be said more succinctly! Feels a little jumbly!

> Primarily the issue is that in the default non-restricted case the seven default routes are created. If the correct path and method are passed into your application by a user, Rails will atempt to call the relevent controller action, even if it doesn’t exist, which will lead to errors.

Reviewer: You're trying to say that if someone calls a route which is defined but not used, then an error is generated?

If so, that could be said more clearly!

> There’s also the chance of security holes. Rails’ standardised naming (while great for our code organisation and structure) means routes can be guessed. The presence of a `GET /orders/12345` route pointing to `orders#show` would imply the existance of a `GET /orders` route for `orders#index` and more dangerously a `PUT /orders/12345` route for `orders#update`.

Reviewer: With the first paragraph of this sentence (and the first sentence of the paragraph before), I wonder if the first paragraph of this section is needed! I say not!

* Rails's (I don't like it but it's grammatically correct to include the 's' if not talking about a pluralised thing)

* comma needed before 'and more dangerously...'

> It’s quite easy to shoot yourself in the foot with a combination of overly permissive routes and  confusing authenticated and public “read only” actions. Minimising the generated routes is another step in maintaining a secure, organised codebase.

Reviewer: * double space between 'and' and 'confusing'

A bit of a jumbly paragraph! Maybe just take the last sentence of this paragraph and tack it onto the one before and delete the rest.

> In extremely large code base where there’s a lot of routes wiht this issue, you _might_ see an improvement in speed from creating less routes, but you'd need a _very_ big application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In extremely large codebases, where there are a lot of routes with this issue, you _might_ see a performance improvement by creating fewer routes, but you'd need a _very_ big application before this will even become factor/something worth thinking about.
```

## Why not?

> This might not be a severe issue for your application. The benefits from a pure organisational persepctive means it's worth casting an eye over your `config/routes.rb` file.

Reviewer: *,purely from an organisational perspective,
